[Music]
hi
i'm divya sharma also known as dr bull
and welcome to
small budget big flavors where i'll be
showing you how to combine great food
and fine dining
but all in a cost-effective way and
today i'm going to be showing you how to
create a
really exquisite afternoon tea all on a
budget
so i'll be making some egg sandwiches
some cucumber and herb triple deckers
and some espresso martini cocktail
fancies i just
can't wait to show my family what a
lavish spread i've put on for them
so let's get baking
so now we're ready to make our cake base
i've preheated my oven to 180 degrees
and i've got all my cake ingredients
here
so all we need to do is just pour all of
our cake ingredients apart from the
liqueur
into our mixing bowl
[Music]
so now our cake batter is ready it
should look something like this
it's a really smooth and creamy
consistency
and we're ready to pour our batter into
the prepared tin and i've got a prepared
baking dish
i've used some greaseproof paper but you
could use any like softened butter
if you haven't got any greaseproof paper
so now we've put our cake batter in the
prepared dish it's ready to go in the
oven at about 180 degrees
for 30 to 35 minutes
we can get on to make our filling we're
just going to pop
all our ingredients in our stand mixer
so now our buttercream filling is ready
it should look something like this
really creamy and luxurious and we can
put it in the piping bag now
[Music]
so i've taken the cake out of the oven
and i've let it cool completely the next
step
is to slice off the top layer of cakes
we get a nice even layer
so now we've taken off the top of the
cake to even it out we're just going to
neaten up the sides as well
so just carefully slice it with a knife
just be careful of your fingers
so the next step is to flip it over so
now we need to cut into four centimeter
squares so you should end up with 28
squares and then so where i've marked
i'm just going to slice down
making sure they're really nice and
straight
we just need to turn the chopping board
around and do exactly the same
but lengthwise
[Music]
so now we have our 28 squares we are
ready to decorate them
so we're just going to get each
individual cake and just
let that cake absorb all that delicious
liqueur
and just repeat that with every cake
slice
if you don't drink alcohol or you want
to reduce your budget
you can actually use a vanilla syrup
instead of the liqueur
or just omit this stage so now we've
dipped all our cake squares into the
liqueur we're ready to decorate with
some chocolate spread
so just using a small spoon we just want
to put a tiny dot
on each individual square
so now we've topped all our cake squares
with the chocolate spread we're ready to
pipe our buttercream
this should be about a raspberry sized
ball and try and put it over the
chocolate
[Music]
so now our cakes have all been piped we
can pop them in the fridge so they
harden
so it'll be easier for us to work with
them later
[Music]
so now our cakes are being set in the
fridge we're ready to make our icing
so the first step is to pour about a
teaspoon of water
into our espresso powder to make a paste
so we just need to keep mixing until we
get that paste consistency
so now you can see that it's become much
thicker
we can now pop that into our icing sugar
and we're just going to give this a
really good whisk so what i would
suggest
is just gradually pour in a tiny bit of
water at a time
and just keep mixing after every time
you've put in
that extra bit of water if you don't
have any fondant icing sugar you could
use just
normal icing sugar instead
so now you can see that the icing sugar
is turned into like a condensed milk
texture
and that's exactly what we're looking
for so i've just got our cakes
out from the fridge and now we are ready
to dip our cakes
into the icing so i've also got our
chocolate melting on the stove
ready for decorating later
so i melted my chocolate in the bain
marie earlier on you could also use a
microwave to melt your chocolate
i popped it in a piping bag and now
we're ready to decorate our fancies
just drizzle it on carefully i've also
popped some greaseproof paper at the
bottom
to catch the chocolate
[Music]
so i popped my fancies in the fridge to
set and now we are ready to make our
sandwiches
because you can't have afternoon tea
without sandwiches
[Music]
so now we've chopped up our eggs we're
going to add it to our mayonnaise
so now we're moving on to our cucumber
and have triple deckers
so i've just got some cream cheese here
i'm just going to season with some salt
and some pepper and add in our herbs
and some chives
and then give that a really good mix so
it's all combined
then we're just going to butter our
bread again
[Music]
now this is what i call an exquisite
spread and can you believe it only cost
65 p per serving what a bargain
and i've even used my fancy teapots and
cutlery to make it that
extra bit special now i can't wait to
present this to my family
[Music]